So far, all the methods
we've looked at for
learning good policies
estimate action values.
Every control arguably study,
was built on the framework
of generalized policy iteration.
In this module, we'll
explore a new class of
methods where the policies
are parameterized directly.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
understand how to define
policies as
parameterized functions
and define one class of
parametrized policies based
on the softmax function.
Let's think about
what it means to
specify a policy directly.
We'll do this in mountain car.
Previously, we used
epsilon-greedy to
convert approximate action
values into a policy.
But we can also consider
policy which maps
states directly to
actions without
first computing action values.
For example, in mountain car,
we can define such a policy.
Simply choose
accelerate right when
the velocity is
positive and otherwise,
choose the accelerate
left action.
Put another way,
this policy accelerates
in whatever direction
we are already moving.
In fact, this simple
energy pumping policy,
is close to optimal.
This policy does not make
use of action values at all.
But this was just an example to
stimulate your intuitions and to
show you that we don't need
action values to
construct policies.
We're not actually going to
specify policies by hand.
Rather, we will learn them.
We can use the language of
function approximation to
both represent and learn
policies directly.
We'll use the Greek letter Theta
for the policies
parameter vector.
This distinguishes it
from the parameters
W for the approximate
value function.
We use the notation Pi
of a given s and Theta,
to denote the
parameterized policy.
For a given input
state and action,
the parameterized policy
function will output
the probability of taking
that action in that state.
This mapping will be controlled
by the parameters Theta.
The parameterized
function, has to
generate a valid policy.
This means, it has to generate
a valid probability distribution
over actions for every state.
Specifically, the probabilities
selecting an action,
must be greater than
or equal to zero.
For each state, the sum of
the probabilities over
all actions must be one.
It requires some
thought to satisfy
these conditions for
a parameterized function.
For example, this means we
can not use a linear function
directly like we did with
value function approximation.
There is no easy way to
guarantee that a linear function
will sum to one.
Instead, we will need
to restrict the class
of functions we can use
to construct policies.
Let's consider a simple but
effective way to satisfy
these conditions called a policy.
Here's the definition
of a softmax policy.
The function h shown here,
is called the action preference.
A higher preference for
a particular action in a state,
means that the action is
more likely to be selected.
The action preference is
a function of the state and
action as well as
a parameter vector Theta.
Computing the
probability of selecting
an action with
the softmax is simple.
We take the action preference,
exponentiate it,
and then divide by the sum over
all the actions for
the same thing.
The exponential
function guarantees
the probability is
positive for each action.
The denominator
normalizes the output of
each action such that
the sum over actions is one.
The action preference, can be
parameterized in
any way we like since
the softmax will enforce
the constraints of
a probability distribution.
For example, the
action preferences
could be a linear function
of the state action
features or something more
complex like the output
of a neural network.
Here's what we get when
we pass a particular set
of action preferences
through the softmax.
The input preferences
can be arbitrarily
large or even negative.
If one preference is much
larger than all the others,
the action probability
would be close to one.
No matter how big
the preference gets,
the probability will never
be greater than one.
If one preference is very small,
the softmax policy
will still select
the action with
non-zero probability.
For example, if the preference is
negative and the
other is positive,
the negative action will still
have non-zero probability.
Finally, actions with
similar preferences
will be chosen with
near equal probability
under a softmax policy.
It's important to
distinguish between
action preferences
and action values.
Preferences indicate how
much the agent prefers
each action but they are not
summaries of future reward.
Only the relative differences
between preferences
are important.
For example, we could add plus
100 to all the preferences
and it would not matter.
An epsilon-greedy policy derived
from action values can behave
very differently than
a softmax policy over
action preferences.
In epsilon-greedy, the action
corresponding to
the highest valued action,
is selected with
high probability.
The probability selecting all the
other actions, is quite small.
Actions with nearly the same
but lower action value,
are selected with
much lower probability.
On the other hand, actions
with very poor action values,
are still selected frequently
due to the epsilon
exploration step.
So even if the agent learns
an action has
terrible consequences,
it will continue to
select that action
much more frequently than it
would under the softmax policy.
That's it for this video.
You should now understand we
can parameterize
policies directly,
that we need to define
parameterizations that
produce valid probability
distributions,
and understand the softmax
policy parameterization.
See you next time.